‘The Evitable Conflict’ is a short story written by Isaac Asimov himself, so it comes as no surprise that ‘The Machines’, the omniscient robots that govern that world’s economic systems, follow Asimov’s laws of robotics in full. The scientists and researchers take the laws as fact, basing their deductions on the assumption that the laws are followed without bringing their credibility into question. The law that was most prevalent in the story was the first law, which says that a robot may not allow a human to come to harm. In the conclusion of the short story, the robotics expert Susan deduces that the slight economic miscalculations are themselves the result of the robots following the first law to the tee. The Machines had determined that in order for the human race to survive, these imperfections must exist; the humans must be convinced that they retain at least a certain amount of control. I find that this fits the icon of the robot outlined by Gwyneth Jones very well, where Jones argues that the robot will always be defined by its artificiality, even if it is physically or mentally more capable than humans. Even though the machines are all-powerful, and the humans rely on them to make virtually all economic decisions, they are still artificial in that they have no capability to deviate from the laws of robotics, and still ultimately serve as tools for the humans, as said by the leader of the Northern Region. This does not mean however that humans necessarily have control over the Machines. In fact, the Machines view their own existence as the key to human survival, and hence will not allow themselves to be overthrown. This is also in line with what Jones mentions, where robots can become ‘villains’ by following instructions too well. One interesting thing however is that in the short story Susan says that “the Machine cannot harm a human being more than minimally, and that only to save a greater number”. I see this as a kind of admittance by Asimov that some nuance outside of the laws may be required in order to fully govern a robot’s actions.

I will first talk about the evil characterization of the cat portrayed in the film ‘Three Robots’ (from Love, Death +Robots), and then try to weave in my explanation on why I think the Isaac Asimov’s Three Laws of Robotics are not viable. This icon is definitely not typical, as it is not like the usual robot, rocket, or a mad scientist that we are so used to seeing. In an unexpected turn of events, the real cause of human extinction did not point towards nuclear war (implied by the presence of nuclear warheads) or global warming (mentioned by Alexa that humans poisoned the water, killed the land and choked the sky), but instead, the seemingly innocent cats. The film later revealed that humans genetically engineered the cats to have possess opposable thumbs which allowed them to slowly rise up the food chain and enslave humans in the process.

The main reason why I find this icon rather unique is because even though humans have already found ways to genetically modify animal genes, we still cannot combat animal evolutionary instincts (the cats want to be stroked in the film) in Darwin’s game of the survival of the fittest. The cat portrayed in this film is unlike a robot which we can create and program from scratch, and explicitly telling it to follow the three golden rules. The cat has its own mind and is free to make its own decisions.

Presumably in the film, the apocalyptic future indeed suggests that the robots are either doing something devastating to mankind (or not doing enough to stop humans from harming ourselves, say global warming), which violates the first law of robotics, meaning that it is not viable. There are good reasons why this is so. Firstly, the laws are too simplistic. For one, the definition of harm is unclear and too open-ended to serve any real purpose – is it ethical to stop obese people from consuming junk food because it is unhealthy? The laws are also unable to answer bigger ethical questions such as the classic trolley problem – wouldn’t it contradict the first law regardless of whether we save one or five lives? These problems can arguably only be solved using Strong AI (a system endowed with free-will, consciousness and sentience). In this view, Isaac Asimov’s laws are not that all-encompassing in combating techno-phobia as they do not sufficiently cover many ethical grounds since the laws (which can be self-contradicting sometimes, as argued above) cannot be easily extended to Strong AI. If anything, the cat is a semblance of the Strong AI, and about every technology that can go wrong. TL;DR, the three laws do not provide for a clear moral compass that can be applied to anything.

On a related note, I would also like to weigh in my personal opinion on why I feel that AI should never be allowed to make ethical decisions on our behalf. Technically speaking, as I have discussed in cohort, AI requires training and therefore input data from humans. If we as humans do not even have an unequivocal standpoint on all ethical issues, what then quantifies as the ‘right’ input data? We therefore cannot expect any AI machine to be our ethical adviser. That said, I am completely in favor of AI to solve technological problems, subjected to our approval, in the name of mankind e.g. identifying unnoticeable tumors in medical diagnostics. After all, we just want to create a better version of ourselves to help us, but not further complicate matters.

Isaac Asimov’s three laws of robotics is displayed through the short film “Three Robots”. In this short clip, the third rule is clearly demonstrated, as well as the first rule to a certain extent. In the film, we can see that the 3 robots has somehow managed to survive the post apocalyptic world where human beings no longer exist. This shows the capability of robots surviving like what is stated among the 3 laws. Next, the short film also, to an extent, demonstrate the first law. The first law actually focuses on human in specific, but we can stretch it to include living organism, in the movie context, which is a cat. In the film, it is shown that even though the cat is “foreign” to them and assumed to be a “threat”, they somehow do not harm the cat which demonstrated the first law.

And to link this with icons of science fictions, 2 strong icons that can be observed from the film is of course the robot itself, and the habitat. The habitat shown is a post-apocalyptic world which is quite common in the genre of sci-fi films, as for the robot, it is quite obvious that robots are present in it. However, the robot shown in the film resembles more a human being rather than a stereotypical robot in many sci-fi films. Not like the general mindless, emotionless, flat robot, the robots in the “three robots” seems to possess emotion and conciousness

In ‘Three Robots’, the most distinctive icon would be the robots themselves. A typical image of a robot in science fiction would usually be stiff, calculative and sometimes lacking a personality. In ‘Three Robots’, we can see that the robots are in fact the opposite of what we would expect. They possess their own quirks and behaviour. The Three Laws of Robotics seemed to apply to robots that were programmed and robots that followed the instructions given by them. If a robot attains sentience and have its own personality, I believe that the Three Laws of Robotics would then start to break down as the Three Laws of Robotics would be insufficient to properly define the robot’s action. Just like how we determine animals which have sentience to be treated with a different set of ethics, these artificially created beings will also have to be subjected to a new set of ethics besides the Three Laws of Robotics which seemed to shackle the robots as tools for human beings rather as being their own entity.

I believe Asimov’s 3 laws of Robotics acts as a guideline to define the boundaries of the aforementioned entity. While it is far from being comprehensive and all encompassing, Asimov undoubtedly provides a starting point and sheds some light on these relatively uncharted waters of robots and machines. In the film 'Three Robots' (from Love, Death +Robots), we see 3 autonomous robots, all with distinct personalities, explore the supposed ruins of a post-apocalyptic human world. They venture into different areas of the empty city, getting fascinated with the activities that humans used to engage in and the human way of life. Naturally, the distinct icon in this case would be the city and how the tourist robots interacted with it. I would think that it is rather cliché theme, given the many repeated science fiction movies/books about robots existing in the aftermath of the human extinction brought about by the humans own destructive behaviours (environmental damage or otherwise). Nonetheless, this speculative science fiction does indeed provide us with good for thought as the robots traversed what used to be the habitat of humans, commenting on how primitive humans were, likening humans to animals. Especially when the robots entered the abandoned restaurant, and one of the robots was sharing with the other two how humans absorbed their nutrients. Or the scene where the robots discovered the basketball and were shocked to know how the ball could possibly be a source for entertainment for humans, simply dismissing it as “anticlimactic”. Having the setting to be in the city where it was the epicentre of the highest concentration of human activity couldn’t have been more ideal as the icon. To tie it back to the 3 laws, I believe that the first 2 laws are irrelevant in this case now that humans cease to exist in the story plot, and all that remains are cats. As for the last law itself, the robots were trying to self-preserve when they displayed signs of caution and were wary of the cats as they could be a potential danger (scene where one of the robots came across the data of “exploding kittens”). I concur with the 3 laws put forth by Asimov, and they are definitely viable as a base foundation, however, much more refinements could be made to the 3 laws to make it more robust and comprehensive.

In 'Three Robots' we see three robots with distinct personalities trying to make sense of the world around them with seemingly no recollection of how humans and their technologies worked. This short film was interesting because of how it dealt with a normally serious trope (post-apocalypse and societal annihilation) with huge doses of levity. Interestingly, instead of being focused on humans, the short film has robots - a common science fiction icon, as the center. The robots are all given quirky personalities and it is heavily implied that robotics was not the reason behind the apocalypse - which is rather different from films such as Terminator or the Matrix where robots drove humanity to near extinction.
Additionally, the robots seemed to lack a real understanding of humans and their activities. Some examples include their confusion at how humans could have fun with a basketball and why humans needed to consume food for sustenance. In this way, the robots are portrayed quite differently from their traditional iconic roles as servitors or assistants to humans. Those roles usually require robots to be carrying out tasks for humans or alongside humans, which requires some degree of understanding of the masters they serve of the social context they operate in. Instead, these three robots are their own masters and act more akin to humans trying to find out about a distant and extinct species. The three of them are also incredibly different from each other in purpose, appearance, personality and voice. This gives them a greater degree of individualism that is also uncommon in robots as a science fiction icon.

In the film "Three Robots", we saw the opening that mimics that of the opening of Terminator where a human skull was crushed (signifying that robots are superior to humans), however, the following was met with a stark contrast between the 2 film, the terminator robots violated Asimov's law, whereas the 'Three Robots' couldn't violate the law because all the humans were wiped out. Furthermore, the law didn't apply to cats and the robots couldn't understand why humans did pointless activities such as basketball and eating. As the film "Three Robots" did not fully show us the post-apocalyptic world, I'm assuming that there might be different parts of this post-apocalyptic cities, where one of the robots mentioned that they all looked the same. The robots themselves could have categorized the post-apocalyptic cities in the same way as Asimov's "The Evitable Conflict".

The setting of the cities is a desolate post-war/post-nuclear environment, where flora is abundant without any sign of life (except for cats). The damsel is distress would probably be the robots at the end, when there are about to be swarmed by cats.

In the short story, ‘The Evitable Conflict’, it depicts the world being split into 4 different regions, where each with a supercomputer – Machine which manages the economy of each region. There is also a group known as “Society for Humanity”, which is an anti-Machine movement that opposes the idea of using the Machine to manage the economy. There was a question about who the culprit behind an economic inefficiency was when some individuals from the “Society for Humanity” movement were the only ones affected by the event. Some suspected it was the people from the movement itself whereas others felt that it was the Machine that triggered this ‘economic inefficiency’ which was supposed to weaken the influence of the “Society for Humanity” movement to prevent humanity from coming to harm. This meant that the Asimov’s Zeroth Law of Robotics that a robot may not injure humanity or by inaction allow humanity to come to harm seems to be fulfilled. This is under the assumption that the Machines were indeed the entities behind the ‘economic inefficiencies’ to certain targeted individuals or companies which is supposed to resolve a future conflict that could possibly happen. However, Asimov’s first Law is violated as the Machine is causing harm to individuals and companies. Hence, I feel that the Machines seem to fulfill Asimov’s Three Law of Robotics in this story if the Zeroth Law of Robotics were to be included as the governing law over the other three laws.
One science-fiction icon that could be associated with ‘The Evitable Conflict’ is computer or robot, as I feel that the Machine feels like a server room which is essentially a room of computers that does computations to decide on the next course of action to ensure economic efficiency. I feel that this is typical of a computer or a robot which is often given a specific task to do, such as calculations, repetitive tasks etc. In this story, it seems that the task of the Machine, is to help humans achieve economic efficiency, with the least damage involved in every decision.

"Three Robots" depict a journey of 3 extremely advanced robots which are in a way "self-aware" despite still abide to law of robotics in a typical sci-fi dystopian world in which human seem to be extinct from different reasons than robots.The icons in this cases are the robots themselves and the world they are in which. the interesting part of the film is the fact that the film remind me of the movie "Avatar" in a sense that the robots are discovering and trying human culture and behavior just like how humans in Avatar try to understand the culture of the creatures in which ended in vain. It is hard to judge that these robots violate the law as human no longer exists. Despite that I think they do not violate the law as they weren't trying to harm the talkable cats despite them being surrounded showing they still abide to rule 1

In the Three Robots, it is not immediately clear and hard to infer if the robots are actually following Asimov's 3 laws of Robotics as there are no humans for the audience to see the laws in action. However, after some thinking, maybe they do. Asimov's 3 Laws of Robotics lay the general foundation that the robots would never harm humans in any way at all. And given that it was mentioned that humans brought harm upon themselves (although not specifically how) we can conclude that robots played no direct cause in the extinction of humans. In addition, looking at the type of robots of the main characters, we can infer that they were created at a time when mankind was generally okay with the mass production of robots as a service product, which means they must have gained society's trust in their safeness (which i believe most definitely involves passing the very popular 3 laws)

Isaac Asimov’s the evitable conflict’ we can see the story about the people have no reason to follow them, but humans of the time already know that it is the best choice for humans to follow the supercomputer's suggestions. In the story we can think that it is possible to make a robot like super computer but in real life our technique is still have to be more advanced to satisfy human thinking about robot adviser.Isaac asimov’s many short story only in the eviatble conflict we can see basic laws of robotics that talk about humanity. Basic laws definition is that robot have to do something that not affect humanity and if there is something that affect humanity robot have to do something. I think that in this line what is humanity that we can define correctly. So, robot can know that what is the range that did not affect humanity.So I think this question can be discussed in many thinkings and When reading this material I can get a chance to think what is humanity and if supercomputer and robot rules human what will happen and how human have to behave.

I feel that Isaac Asimov’s Three Laws of Robotics would not viable upon watching ‘Three Robots’(from Love, Death + Robots).This is due to the fact that cats are depicted as being genetically engineered by humans to have opposing thumbs and hence, were the cause of the human extinction. This can be highlighted by the cat(that was following the 3 robots) mentioning that, “When we could open our own tuna cans, that was pretty much that for the human race.” This shows that the cats, being “machines” since they were modified, violated Asimov’s first law of Robotic by harming/killing humans. The icon of ‘robot’ could be said to be typical in this case, typical in the sense that these genetically engineered cats, who were now considered to be robots, were the cause of human extinction, killing the ones that created them. This resonates with many sci-fi films, such as “I-Robot”, where the robots begin to harm the human species that created them. Hence the robot icon, given its portrayal in ‘Three Robots’ by cats as well as its portrayal in many sci-fi films, suggests that Asimov’s Three Laws of Robotics will never be viable.

The short film "Three Robots" highlights the inexhaustiveness of the Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics where it cannot account for the lack of complete information and subjective preferences. As illustrated through the robots' lack of complete understanding regarding eating, playing basketball and whether cats explode upon them not being petted, the first law can be inadvertently violated by simply a lack of knowledge. As a result, robots may experience analysis paralysis as they do not know what they do not know, and thus may never be able to make decisions for humans as they do not know whether their actions would harm humans or not. Furthermore, the fact that the robots have different roles, like entertainment and interacting with babies, and consequently different personalities, suggests the variability and subjectivity of humans as their creators. Variability and subjectivity then suggest that there can be many decisions that are "right" in a given scenario. Indeed, psychology has shown through Antonio Damasio's work that emotions and subjectivity play a central role in decision-making. People who have the part of the brain responsible for emotions damaged could make no decisions at all, as they had no preferences. For robots to make decisions for humans, they would then have to deal with all these differing subjective perspectives, which would once again lead to analysis paralysis and the first law would break down, since it also prevents the robots from resorting to inaction.

The use of the robot icon is atypical, as the film opts out of the scenario where the robot's interaction with humans is emphasised. In the film, the robots are shown to have minimal understanding of humans' behaviour, as though they have not interacted much with humans, and they are not the cause of the apocalypse. The film's sudden mood change at the beginning (from robot stepping on a skull to light-hearted and humorous scenes) and plot twist at the end where humanity is said to have caused their own demise, suggests that the film intended to unconventionally highlight the scenario where the robots have had no direct interactions with humans.

he idea of a robot as described by Gwyneth Jones roughly corresponds to a worker that has superior skills and intelligence when compared to humans and would somehow take a humanoid form. ‘The Machines’ as described by Asimov in his story ‘The Evitable Conflict’ loosely fits this representation and hence, the laws of robotics could be applied to it. It is interesting to note that at the given time, Asimov had only established the first three laws of robotics. The First Law hence read, “A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm”. In the story, it is shown that The Machines break this first law by deliberately causing unemployment, etc that harms certain humans. However, it is discovered that The Machines did in fact, follow the First Law by generalizing “human” to “humanity”, thus causing harm to a few for the greater good of the others. Given that The Machines are economics management robots, the fact that they learned to identify what the ‘ultimate good’ is when humans themselves are unsure of the concept, shows that they had already risen above humans in intelligence and have taken control of the present and future themselves. The Laws of Robotics were meant to protect humanity from this sort of takeover and to just keep the icon of a robot in the place of a worker. But in the story, The Machines ultimately taking control even though they loosely abide by the laws already indicates that the laws are not really viable.

Three Robots is a short film of a time long after the fall of humanity where three robots roam around a post-apocalyptic city to try understanding how human beings live through observation of their dead bodies and the things they have left behind. In my opinion, I feel that Asimov’s Three Laws would not be viable towards the application of this film based on the setting of the film. This is so as Asimov’s Three Laws are created with the main intention to protect the interests of humans as the purpose of robots’ existence is centered to improve the lives of us humans. These laws are definitely more directed towards the interaction between humans and robots and since this show depicted a post-apocalyptic world with the human race being extinct, the three robots having a conversation with one another would not be able to portray the viability of the Three Laws. In the second part of the show, we realised that the evil cats in the shows are genetically engineered and caused humanity to be wiped out and the robots were at their mercy as they swarmed the three of them in the last scene. This final part made me feel that the cats had the power to kill the three robots like how they killed the humans if they are not treated and patted as requested. And since the cats are genetically engineered, it can be seen from a different perspective that the cats, in this case, can be the “robot” and the three robots can be viewed as “humans” where they actually made Asimov’s Law viable and applicable. Thus this film allowed me to view the viability of Asimov’s Laws from two different perspectives.

The three robots in the film were portrayed in a post apocalyptic world. They had vast knowledge on how humans were and what they did but in my opinion, did not really comprehend the reasons behind specific human functions such as eating. Since they were programmed to “think” in such a way, if humans were to exist, the three robots would not be able to empathise with specific humane actions. I see the fact that they do not have an empathetical understanding towards some actions as the obeying of second law,” A robot must obey the orders given it by human beings except where such orders would conflict with the First Law.” to a large extent. Back to how they are unable to empathise with some human actions, it is safe to say that they can easily kill a human, seeing how they can get frantic after thinking cats could explode, this would depict that they are programmed to have some sort of defence mechanism. Due to small pool of information provided to these robots via instructions, we can say that first law could possibly be violated.
Thinking deeper, the three robots actually remind me of 3 bickering best friends in a clique who is hanging out after school ( just in this film, it is an after-apocalypse). The robots seems to be portrayed to be closer to humans instead of the norm where it is Humans VS Robots. It is interesting to think how the interaction between the robots go( especially alike to how humans are talking, leading me to conclude that they could be a symbol for humans instead) and as we discover that they were doomed at that last scene, made me wonder if there will be ever be a law stating that robots cannot kill other living things? Are they going to kill the cats for survival? In the film, robots are being represented as the weaker party and this is not the case in SciFi movies where they are able to shoot lasers or they are so strong that humans in the movies have to programme a stronger robot to fight back, et cetera. A very, very atypical representation of robots in this case.

Engaging with the SF icon of robots, I observed that the robots were atypical in “Three Robots.” Usually, we would see robots serving humans and always doing tasks for them. However, in this film they were portrayed without the existence of humans, allowing us to explore what it would be like for robots to have the autonomy to make their own decisions and have their own personalities.

In addition, the cities that are usually portrayed in SF are futuristic ones with that humans thrive in, where they use many technologies and robots to tend to their needs. (One example would be in "Iron Man" where Tony Stark uses F.R.I.D.A.Y, his intelligent assistant, and other technologies to aid in his daily activities). On the other hand, this film portrays a dark view of the future of humans, where they were destroyed by their own actions as they degraded the environment around them, leaving the robots and the genetically-engineered cats behind.

From this, I would like to address how Asimov’s third law does apply to this film. We can see this from the robots’ first encounter with a cat, and they were so fearful of its existence as their impression of it was referenced to the game ‘exploding kittens.’ Due to the seemingly ‘hazardous’ nature of this game, the robots stayed wary of the cat, especially the tallest one. He was visibly scared when the cat slept on him, as he was afraid that it might explode. (Haha, that was quite a funny part of the film!) Although lighthearted, the scene clearly portrayed how the robots protected their own existence, without the disobeying or harm of any humans (there was none, to begin with). Nevertheless, in the scenario that humans were existent, I believe that these robots would not do harm to any humans because of their gentle nature. They would not even hurt a cat, let alone human beings. In fact, the smallest robot even appeared to look up to the human race a lot, as seen from him being so fascinated with the items that humans used to utilise in their daily activities (e.g. basketball, television). Of course, we cannot say for certain as we did not manage to observe any interactions between these 2 species, but I think that there were hints that convinced me about how Asimov’s 3 Laws were viable for this film.

"Three Robots" is a different Sci-Fi film in terms of its plot as it sets up perfectly in a Sci-Fi world with icons such as a post apocalyptic world with advanced technology and robots with different functions as their main characters. However, most Sci-Fi films will highlight these icons as a the main antagonist since they are often to highlight the potential dangers of advancements in technology but for the most part of the film, it takes a more light-hearted stance in developing these icons. If I were to think deeper about its purpose, I will interpret this film as a film that pokes fun of usual Sci-Fi films since it is atypical by not showing how advancements brought the doom of humans and when the reason was revealed, the usual icons of Sci-Fi was not blamed and in fact it was cats to be blamed.

The viability of the Three Laws of Robotics was honestly not obvious in this particular film in my opinion. However, this film showed how it might be like without the Three Laws of Robotics restricting their actions since a constant theme throughout the film was that the robots treated the humans almost as another species that they are really interested in rather than people that they cannot harm/have to protect. I think that it might also been in the producers intention to highlight how robots can have their own personalities and be treated simply like another species rather than subservient to mankind and only have to act in the interest of man.

"Three Robots" (from Love, Death + Robots) was a short-animated film that portrays a dark dilapidated earth after the result of a nuclear war. The three robots are all differently shaped and have different builds, I guess to represent their different personalities. Firstly, the sleek pyramid shape robot, and given a feminine voice seemed to be programmed to be sarcastic and with quirky funniness. It also seems that “she” was able to be serious and disturbing as well, from the fact that she gave a deep, ominous speech near the end of the film when they were exploring a run-down nuclear launch site. Xbot was given more of a male teenager personality from the numerous curses and his lack of empathetic attitude – from the fact that he did not care much about his ancestors. Finally, the small sized robot was the main energy force of the group, giving the group excitement and energy as they “toured” the ruins. He seems to be a “showoff” and many a times remark about the inefficiencies of humans, while boasting knowledge about the behaviourisms of them – “teabagging” which Xbot had to search up. Initially, Asimov’s laws of robotics: third law was reflected nearing the end, they feared for their own existence upon encountering the supposedly “deadly” genetically engineered cat species. However, it is questionable how the zeroth law was not applicable as if it was followed, it should have protected humanity from nuclear wars and humans would still be surviving well on Earth. The main icon of the film – Robots, was applied in an atypical way in which instead of a senseless technologically advance being who is restricted to perform a set role of tasks and duties, all 3 robots (having different builds and thus probably different sets of roles) were portrayed to not be bounded by it and like “tourists” were exploring the expanse of the planet. It is also possible that the robots have reached a level of sentience to want to explore and experience the living culture of humans instead of purely relying on their vast database of knowledge.

In the "Three Robots", it could be seen that humans have already been wiped out. and the caused was due to genetically modifying cats which was pointed out in the later part of the film. In this way, since humans was already wiped out, Isaac Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics is not really applicable since there are no humans, but it can be seen that they actually created the thumbs on the cats and this directly or indirectly harmed humans into extinction. Therefore this partly shows that law one of the three laws is actually very important in what humans make, be it genetically modifying cats or any other invention. The laws can actually be very viable as a back up plan to preserve the human race in case humans accidentally change something that harms ourselves.

In 'The Evitable Conflict', the main icon seems to be the Machines themselves, that are able to make precise calculations and advise humans on how to make decisions. The story has a very positive view of technology, portraying the Machines as the ones who in the end, manage to 'save the day'. In this case, the Three Laws of Robotics contribute to how the Machines manage to save the day, in my opinion. The way the Machines fix problems that the humans caused is exceedingly delicate, and still does not lead to harm to the humans, demonstrating the effectiveness of the Laws. However, this story is written by Asimov, the same who wrote the Laws. Thus, it is expected that his own work is aligned to the Laws, and support them.

I think one common icon in these two films and other SF is that the creation of more advanced 'species'/robots would inevitably create unintended consequences. In 'The Evitable Conflict' the machines make no mistakes calculated that sacrificing some humans for the greater good is the most optimal decision to make. Humans are unable to comprehend that decision that the machine makes as it is beyond them. In 'Three Robots' it was the invention of cat's with thumbs and presumably intelligence that ultimately resulted in the extinction of the human race.

In the Evitable Conflict, I feel that the Machine is an icon representing a superior being in the world which was created by humans. Usually, robots are icons of being good servants to their masters which can be seen in the story where the command by the masters of the Machine was to not harm humanity and they did this through methods which were beyond human ability. However, the idea of the Machine being a servant is not entirely accurate as we can see from the story that the Machines were the ones that were running and taking care of the world economy and humans were supposed to follwo the instructions of the robots. Hence, i feel that despite obeying the First law of robotics, the Machines in this story did not seem entirely like a servant to humanity but also a master as they too sought to preserve their own existence.

'Three Robots'

As mentioned in some of the comments above it is intriguing to think of robots as humans and animals (cats) as hyper intelligent specie. The 3 tourist robots in this movie (as far as the narrative went) showed coherence with Asimov's Laws as in they were not the ones to disobey human orders or harm humans while desiring the eradication of the human civilisation. On the contrary the ones, which the humans let out of the equation 'things which can destroy us' were they're pets -harmless and cute. For me the intention of the story was to show through the comic eye that super intelligent AI's may not be the end of our species, what might be the end of us is our own stupidity. Meaning to say that sometimes we tend to focus on grand problems which can turn out imaginary ( AI desiring to kill us) while missing the real treats in world ( Humans wanting to kill other humans through AI, plastic thrown in the ocean...).

In relation to Asimov, I believe this movie takes an interesting turn on the laws. In a word where technology is so powerful and genetical modification is a fact, the 3 Laws are complied by robots, yet not by super intelligent animals.

The short film 'Three Robots' shows three robots, who have gained sentience, exploring the a deserted city as if they were tourists exploring a foreign country. Clearly, the most obvious science fiction icons in the film are the robots. In the film, it is never clearly specified if the three robots would have followed Asimov's three laws of robotics. Humanity had already long already been wiped out, and hence, they did not have any 'masters' to command them to test whether they were still compliant. However, throughout the film, I noticed that the robots had a rather condescending view towards humans. They often remarked on the stupidity of humankind (causing their own demise through nuclear fallout), and mocking human activities (such as eating). Thus, they seemed to think of the human race as a more primitive species. This sentience complicates things and could be an example of why Asimov's three laws of robotics MAY NOT be followed. If the robots truly did look down on humans, why would they follow their orders? Perhaps they might see themselves as worthy of ruling over humans instead. Thus, I believe that if the robots gained sentience, Asimov's three laws of robotics may prove to not be viable anymore.

As for how the use of the 'robot' icon may have been used in a non-typical manner, I believe that the film decided to inject humor into the film by giving the robots quirky and sarcastic personalities. This is something that is rarely done in sci-fi robot films, as most of the time, robots are shown to be cold and emotionless. Even for robots who have 'gained emotions', the story would normally push for them to display love or anger or sadness instead. In fact, the film brings attention to this by intentionally starting the film with a foreboding soundtrack and a gloomy setting. Human skulls are crushed and one of the robots makes his entrance in an intimidating way. However, the first line that the he says is "Uh... we are **** lost, aren't we?", completely shattering the impression of a dark, serious film, and forming the foundation for what would prove to be a hilarious film.

For this reflection I will be making an observation of Asimov’s Three Laws of Robotics in ‘The Evitable Conflict’ by engaging the science fiction ‘icon’ machines.

In the text, the world is governed by 4 highly intelligent machines which have been given autonomous control, the ability to make any decision they deem fit for the world. As this text is written by Isaac Asimov himself, it is no surprise that these highly intelligent machines follow the three laws. The highly intelligent machines were built from previous machines, hence there is no way for any human to make checks on the computer or its intention. As it follows in the text, the world co-ordinator, Stephen Byerley starts having doubts about the machines as economic hiccups seemed to have started taking place in recent times. This leads to the fear that the machines may have been wanting to wage a war against mankind.

The text undoubtedly provided a reason why Asimov’s Three Laws may not be sufficient by themselves. At the end of the text, it is discovered that the robots had been following the Three Laws all along but caused the minor economic disturbances for the betterment of humanity in the long run. However, what this showed is that, humans as beings of lesser intelligence, may wrongly perceive certain actions or inactions of a machine. In this case what would be the ‘right’ answer? Because all along right and wrong has been determined by humans as we view ourselves as the most intelligent beings. However, with highly intelligent machines, would we be able to put our skepticism aside and follow them blindly? Or would our ego overpower us and lead us to doubt the intentions of the computers?

The use of the icon is slightly atypical. In most science fiction, the intentions of machines are seen to be fairly clear, either pure evil or childish innocence. But in the case of this text, the machines have been shown to be somewhat neutral, loyal only to their purpose, which was the betterment of humanity. While this is different from most science fiction, it shows one of the more plausible outcomes of a smart system, as good and evil are human constructs, which would highly unlikely be present in a intelligent machines.

Seeing how the 3 robots still exist in the future even when mankind went extinct, they definitely did follow the 3rd law of Robotics which is to protect their own existence without harming or disobeying humanity. Usually, we see how humans and AI struggle to coexist in dystopic sci-fi stories. In this short film, It is interesting to observe how the robots still surviving without any purpose (assuming that they were created to be used by human beings).

Gwyneth Jones posited that robots in most sci-fi stories are servants of humans but are devalued because of their artificiality which usually brings about the debate of the appropriate treatment of these robots. However, in this short story, we do not see the interaction between robots and humans at all. Instead, the role of the robots was to bring a 3rd party viewpoint of a typical human's lifestyle, which was a unconventional use of robots in a sci-fi story.


In the story of the 3 robots, we see 3 robots trying to explore a world previously inhabited by humans. The robot icon is used not as a servant to humans, but like a human trying to explore a different world. Challenges and traditions were used as well. The robots were trying to understand the lives of humans as they roamed the terrain of ruins. There was no human inhabitant who could answer all their doubts about the world, but as audience we know that their efforts have all been inconclusive.

From an ethical point of view, the 3 laws of robotics are not viable because we see that they did not break the 3 laws but fail to comprehend simple situations around them. During the basketball scene, the robot did not understand that humans created basketball as a challenge for themselves to score as many goals within the time limit, while competing with an opposing team. And it would feel rewarding once one succeeds. All the robot understood was, if humans bounce them, they feel happy. Without looking for more information where they could perhaps infer what humans did with a basketball, the robot concluded quickly that for humans, bouncing a ball could make them happy. Also, when they were trying to understand what a kitten is, they
wrongly referred to the kitten from the card game "Exploding Kittens". Back to ethics, ethical decisions are highly contextual and require a lot of interpretation of information for the robot to make a sound judgement. The way the robots look at the world, the way they think and the way they make conclusions about the world is very immature. To be fair, they are showing signs of learning but it seems like they have a lot to learn about this world.

 Three Robots
The short animation depicts the post-apocalypse world where the human race was extinct while machine (and cats) develop intelligence and awareness about their surrounding. The three robots in the animation have their own minds, behaviour and characteristic. The shorts robot is humourous, eager while the triangle robot is more sarcastic straight forward. These behaviours and characteristics are very much completely based on human's one and were done so in order to humanise the characters of the shorts for dramatic effects. As such, when we look at how this short reflects Asimov's 3 Laws of robotics, I believe we have to focus on, in this case, the reason of human extinction based on the short's director opinion. It tells us that it was not the technology we created that kills us but rather our arrogance and ignorance toward everything else that ends our species, which the movie specified natural disaster. The idea of how humans see themselves as the "pinnacle" of every species is reflected in Asimov's robotic Laws in the way that all the Laws were heavily centred around the human and they are meant to serve and benefit human with the disregard of the robot's survival. To put it another way. The 3 Laws prioritise human life above anything else. Although it is undeniable that the creation of robotics and machines are meant to serve human being which results in how the three Laws of robotics make sure the human creator are safe and protected under any circumstances. Nevertheless, quite often we bring this attitude to deal with everything in our lives being machines or nature. And the shorts predicts that if we carry on this way of living a selfish and negligent life, we are heading for doom.

In 'The Evitable Convict', we see the Machines, robots which govern and manage the economy of the world. The Co-ordinator, was investigating the inefficiencies which arose, in spite of the Machines being supposed to eliminate such issues. It was found out that the inefficiencies arose due to the Machines taking into account the effects of the 'Society of Humanity', a anti-Machine faction, by replacing people who were in the Society, to weaken them. This would lead to less opposition to the Machines, which have determined that the greatest harm to humanity is the economic dislocation that would be caused by the destruction of the Machines. It was at this moment which you can see the machines obey the first law of robotics, in which they carried out actions to prevent the harm of humanity, by displacing members of the Society. However, in displacing the members of society, it can be considered to be disobeying the Asimov's First law. This was dealt with in the book by arguing for saving a greater number of humanity.

The Machines in 'The Evitable Conflict' fits the icon of the robot, a servant to humanity, as typical of science fiction, where they work to optimize and manage the economy with the best interests of humanity in mind. However, this brings up an interesting point regarding the viability of the three laws, in which although it can be argued that the Machines obeyed the first law, it adds a paradox within the laws. In the case of 'The Evitable Conflict', the Machines are put in a situation which humanity's survival is predicated on the survival of the Machines. However, this would create and issue if the Machine was placed in a situation which would result either the destruction of the Machines, or harm to humanity. This brings into question the viability of Asimov's Laws.

Love, Death +Robots has the the sci-fi icon of, well, robots. It shows a world free from human influence for a long time and the only things roaming around are the robots, and cats. The story revolves around 3 robots who discuss the downfall of humanity, being that humans died off due to their own arrogance. We as humans might have programmed the robots with Azimov's Three Laws of Robotics flawlessly, such that they would follow our every command and not harm humanity, but we can still fall. The short shows us the writer's idea that robots and AI might not save humanity from extinction even if we do it perfectly, which I think to be a very interesting view since a lot of the motivation to develop such things is to help and benefit humanity.

"Three Robots" began by portraying a dystopian outlook of humanity. The film focuses on the speculative notion that humanity is completely wiped out, and what remains are autonomous robots on Earth. In evaluating the viability of Asimov Three Laws from this short film, I believe that the first law is being violated. From the beginning of the film, the robots are portrayed to have little understanding of humanistic behavior, their knowledge about humanity only stemming from accessing the WWW. This was evident through their awkward interaction with the basketball, their reaction towards humans ingesting food, and also seeing the kitten as a ticking time bomb. This boils down to the three robots having an inability to make rational decision or 'thinking' in tandem to the human perspectives. As such, we cannot ignore the possibility that they could easily bring harm upon a human given their lack of understanding on humanity.

The film projects the three robots with such great autonomy that the second law would likely also be violated. From the conversations amongst the three robots, they had the ability to banter and ridicule each other, with the intention of irritating/mocking one another. Given that a 'human-like' figure exists, it is difficult to see the three robots being subservient to this figure, but rather see it as inferior to them. Drawing contrast to a robot icon, the robots in this film deviate far from their assumed role in completing task, making our Earth a more efficient and smart ecosystem. Instead the robots are portrayed to see humans as a totally different species, similar to how we view the extraterrestrial, with a lack of understanding.

In the short-movie "Three Robots" 3 icons of sci-fi are depicted: the city, the robots and the animals.

- The City: the short is located in an unknown city which however can help to locate the era in which the story is narrated; a futuristic apocalyptic world where human existence have been wiped away by their own self. The use of this icon characterizes the whole movie and acts as an embodiment of the fall of humanity. The same usage of the city icon have been present in many other sci-fi novels where the city is used to portray a dystopian future where humans have ceased to exist.

- The Robots: the story contains 3 robots as protagonists. They roam around this apocalyptic scenario where they are in search of nothing specific. They just try to analyze and collect artifacts and pictures from the "human era". The director depicts them as funny characters, very humorous, which makes the viewer sympathize with them quickly. The three have different "bodies" and different characteristics and functions but they all seem to have very humane minds. While usually the icon of the robot is used in sci-fi either to represent the evil which will try to subjugate the human species, or to represent the good and helping character that will instead save the humankind; in this short movie the robots have a very neutral aura around them and they are mostly used as a medium to describe the situation and the surroundings.

- The animals: the animal present in this animation is a cat. At the beginning very innocuous, it rapidly shift into a very conscious, hyper-intelligent cat, that not only can talk but also has opposable thumbs. And it can quickly play the role of the somewhat enemy of the 3 robots, by calling an horde of cats and subjugating the robot to infinite slavery.
In this case the icon has been used in an unusual way since usually in sci-fi animals do not have a key role in the story and especially do not have the role of an evil protagonist. Other novels portray animals in a situation of slavery or abuse, while here they are the ones who use their supernatural intelligence to subjugate the robots.

Regarding Asimov's 3 Law or Robotics, I believe that there viability is subtly ignored or not necessary. The robots do not have to deal with humans anymore and the laws being tailored for the relationship between humankind and robots fail to be of interest. The 1st and 2nd law are redundant in this case, while the 3rd is still into effect and can be viable, since the robots are surely protecting their own existence by being careful of what they touch and study. When they first met the cat, they have been very careful not to "misuse" it since they thought it could explode. But this led them to a trap.
However, if we substitute the word "human being" with the word "living being" than the 3 laws would still be into effect and the robots respected them blindly. However this has led them into a uncomfortable situation. They behaved ethically to receive an unethical treatment.

In the film "Three Robots, the 'city' icon was put into good use by giving off a very dystopic feeling. However, the robots did not follow the typical 'robots' icon as defined by Gwyneth Jones. The typical robots from science fiction films are generally devalued by their artificiality, and good and trusty servants to humans. They follow the set of instructions pre-programmed into them without question. However, the robots depicted in this film had a sense of humor and no obvious goal. They still followed Isaac Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics to a certain extent. There were no humans around to test their obedience of the first and second laws, but the third law was seen as the robots protected themselves while exploring the dystopic cityscape.

In "the evitable conflict", the validity of the AI's decision making is brought into question but upon further investigation, it was revealed that these decisions were the best for humanity on a whole, hence, it shows that Asimov's Three Laws are still relevant as they will be the "supergoals" of these AI. It dispels fears of AI being subversively trying to harm humanity, which may be a result of us projecting our own nature and psyches onto the AI. Because the four supercomputers were adherent to Asimov's Three Laws, humanity prospered.

The evitable conflict also engages one of the themes of science fiction, which was the computer. In SF, the computer is usually the entity making the optimal and logical choices, and conflict usually arises when optimality is prioritised over emotionality in these computers. However, in "the evitable conflict", an ideal result of optimality is shown when the supercomputers are tasked with serving humanity by following Asimov's Three Laws.

In my opinion I feel that Isaac Asimov’s three laws of robotics is not viable in the film “Three Robots” as it does not sufficiently cover the ground of what makes a robot. The icon that I would be engaging is the non-typical genetically modified Cat that is portrayed in this film. Unlike most films that usually portray human’s intellect by showing what mad scientist can create after years of research, this film instead show that humans might just not know the consequences behind the actions that they take. This can been seen at the last scene when the cat admitted that the real cause of human extinction is not nuclear war, or global warming but that of the cats itself as they possess opposable thumbs which helped to rise up the food chain and replace human being in the process. The consequences here to human actions is one where we are unable to fully predict an animal instinct when we take steps to change their genetics make up. Unlike a robot that is usually created by humans and then taught to learn by themselves, cat on the other hand has its own thinking and instincts. We might be able to change their intelligence but we cannot predict how they will behave when they wield such intelligence which could eventually lead to the downfall of humans.

In my opinion, Isaac Asimov’s Three Laws of Robotics might not be viable in the film ‘Three Robots’. Firstly, the human had already extinct from the planet in the film. There is no way that a robot can even practice the first and second laws, which is to listen to and not harming humans who are no longer exist. Also, when the pyramid-shaped robot introduced how humans as lead to our extinction, the robot said, “Nah, they just screwed themselves by being a bunch of morons”. If verbal abusing humans is considered a form of harm to humans, the third law is not viable anymore.

I feel that the science fiction icon ‘Robots’ is the focus of the film. The film gave us an idea of what can a robot possibly be like in the future. They could be in the form of an android or be designed in all different shapes. Also, the robots could have their own different characters.

The short film "Three Robots" gave a different perspective about robots overtaking humans.

The three robots were introduced to be friendly and their behaviour is very much relatable to humans, rather than the regular depiction of the likely conflict between robots and humans. The human race was also revealed to have annihilated themselves through the poisoning of their own lands, which the humans depended on the live. The cat at the end of the film also shows the human's obsession in technological advancement and alteration of nature that led to the dismal of the human race; be it poisoning the lands or giving cats opposable thumbs.

In my opinion, the 'Three Laws of Robotics' are not viable in this film. First, there are no humans in the film, and humans have had destroyed themselves as revealed by the robots only three versions into developing entertainment system "X-bot". Hence, even if the robots were indeed imposed with those laws, the significance is lower than that of human's own ethics. Such that, the purpose and the impact of the human creations would be more likely to require regulations and studies so that humans do not annihilate their own lands that they are much dependent on.

As such, me watching the film as a human, the film seemingly led me to think about human ethics more than machine ethics such that we should focus on cultivating our own ethics, and in turn, build with those ethics. For example, we may ask, what is the purpose of the machines created and what kind of data we wish to feed the machines. By answering a similar question we can then develop with an assurance that the machines built will be harmonious with what we intend to have. In terms conscious Artificial Intelligence (AI), assuming there are no malicious people misusing AI, the conscious AI would be more likely to be friendly to humans, much like how we humans are helping animals; a superior species towards an inferior species.

Three Robots depicts what it would be like in a post-apocalyptic world where humans seem to be extinct. The cause of which is explained to be due to environmental degradation. At first, it is hard to see a connection between Asimov’s Three Laws of Robotics and the story as there aren’t any humans present for the laws to still be in practice. Furthermore, the film suggests that the end of the human race will be brought upon through our own doing even before robots will ever get the chance to cause us harm. However, it is interesting to note the different opinions the robots have about humans. From the xbot with the lack of knowledge to the informative orange robot with an enthusiasm for all things related to humans and finally the large, pessimistic grey robot which despises humans. It seems that it would be counter-intuitive for the last robot to have such an attitude while still being able to obey the Three Laws especially no. 2; “A robot must obey the orders given to it by human beings except where such orders would conflict with the First Law.”

In Three Robots, the typical use of the robot icon is seen. The three robots tour a post-apocalyptic Earth city. It was unclear what were the robots' purpose when exploring the city, except the fact that they were doing so merely to learn about humanity. However, I came upon an interesting thought. If Asimov's three laws of robotics applied, which means the robots were programmed with humanity's interest in mind. If humanity went extinct, the robot would have failed and lose all purpose. However, that is not the case in this short story. This means that we have formed a proof by contradiction; that the robots were not built following Asimov's three laws. This means that in this fictional world, the three laws could have been considered as unviable or not sufficient to program sentient robots

In the opening of the short animation 'Three Robots ', we are greeted by the typical ominous scene whereas a robot stepped onto a human's skull. However, the scene quickly turns into a light-hearted one. Here I would say the icon - robot - is used unusually. The robots seem to have human's feelings and behaviours but we are not sure if they indeed have sentience. For instance, it is quite natural for the creator of a baby sitter robot to integrate the feeling of excitement and joy into the robot, and that does not directly translate that the red robot has awareness.

Furthermore, the exploration of the idea in the plot is rather interesting. The three robots were on holidays and exploring human's lifestyle. It seemed the director is seamlessly bringing us into the role of an external observer to inspect our decisions such as choking our environment, creating nuclear bombs, and giving the fourth thumb to our beloved feline.

Looking at this perspective, the robots seem to have no interest in dominating the human. Thus, Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics are not viable. Instead, something biologically closer to human is the death of us and that is the furry ball that we love - cat. I think it is rather natural since cat has its primal instinct and since human has engineered them and unlock their capability of thinking similar to human, they rose up the food chain.

To a large extent, in in 'The Evitable Conflict', Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics is portrayed as a very viable framework to guide the actions of robots. In this short story, Asimov sets the image of machines as good servants abiding by the Three Laws that protect humans from their mentally and physically superior creations. Set in a futuristic world in 2052, four superintelligent robots far more intelligent than even the best mathematicians, extropolated from 10 iterations, controlled the world's four major regions by gathering vast amount of information and processing them. This created an idyllic society free from evils like unemployment, poverty and war. Due to the Machine's interpretation of the First Law of Robotics, it concluded that its actions "may not harm humanity or, by inaction, allow humanity to come to harm", hence, taking action to preserve themselves by removing the only threats to them which are individuals from the Society for Humanity. Doing so would ensure that the Machines would stay in power to make decisions that result in the ultimate good of humanity. From history, we have seen humans are constantly at war, where of the past 3,400 years, humans have been entirely at peace for 268 of them, or just 8 percent of recorded history. While war may not be the most accurate representation of human's shortcomings, it is sufficiently accurate to say that humans or in our groups as societies have not figured out how to coexist properly with each other. Contrary to this, the Machines seemed to have figured out how to make peace happen. Importantly, despite making better decisions than humans by being mentally superior to mankind, the robots are still subservant to humanity as a result of the extrapolated Three Laws of Robotics, which still makes humanity the master and not the slave. Hence, perhaps this would serve as a good starting point to determine the viability of the Three Laws of Robotics.

In "Three Robots", we see an incredible inversion of the icon of the Robot. Usually used as a form of oppression or state power, or even as a kind of other against us, we see a complete inversion instead in the opening, where the titular three robots are the main characters, studying humans as a form of "other" to them. We see only robots with human traits, and no sign of humans to be seen - the city is deserted and the robots wander the landscape. Humans are treated as something to be studied, and indeed, we get an 'other' view of humanity in general, subverting the idea of robots as an 'other'.

Evidently, from the state of the city and the fact that the robots are alive for the humans aren't - the Three Laws are fundamentally not quite viable as the be-all-end-all of robotic morality. Rather, the robots fail to prevent catastrophe precisely because they are programmed to obey orders over self-preservation. Even if they are unable to allow humans to come to harm, it is hard to see how they would be able to stop said humans from causing harm to themselves, since to stop them would be to harm them. Quite the conundrum, really.

In the story Evitable Conflict, we can see the Three Laws of Robotics in play, specifically the First Law. In the story, we saw how the regional and world economy is being managed by four Machine, one in each region. The World Co-ordinator Bayley found errors in the Machine managing of the economy leading to inefficiency. This led him and his team to find out that the main victims of these errors were high profile individuals and companies in the Society for Humanity. The acts were believed to be a form of retaliation by the Machines on the Society, which was working against the Machines and to regain power for humanity. We know that the Machines were built with the First Law to never harm humans through inaction, and the Machines are doing so through their own interpretation. The Machines saw that their own existence is instrumental to the survival of humanity, and therefore acted to cause harm to a few select humans to ensure themselves are not harmed. The Machines have interpreted the First Law as the Zeroth Law of Robotics, leading them to take control of humanity. This is an example of how hard it is to come up with a set of rules or guidelines to ensure artificial intelligence do not bring harm to humans/humanity. This is also linked to the science icon of a machine taking a course of action base on calculations and efficiency. If harming a few humans to ensure the survival of the masses is necessary, then it will take such an action. Perhaps taking too many or over generalizing precautions may turn out to be more detrimental.

Why worry so much about a future of robots killing humans if we are already inching towards the treacherous fate of self-annihilation? Amidst the many other dystopian science fiction of robots or technology bringing harm to society, “Three Robots” reminded us of the flip side of the coin that often or not may slip our minds. What if robots were indeed dutifully made with regards to the 3 laws of robotics and too had a consciousness of their own, such that their super-intelligence benefitted us all? Would it entirely be a happy ending for us all? Here in the “Three Robots”, the 3 robots are characterised and used differently as an icon of sf. Instead of heartless robots that only wish to manipulate and conquer, the 3 robots were just happy, careless individuals, intending to explore and learn more about humans as entertainment. They held characters that we can empathise with, making them seem more friendly than hostile, which means the first law is ticked off since they intend no harm. In addition to that, as we follow the robots through the remnants of the post-apocalyptic city, we see old versions of themselves, noted as their “ancestors”. This meant the 3rd law too had been applied where the robots kept their survival and even upgraded themselves. We soon figure out that the hold human race was wiped out due to environmental changes that we inflicted upon ourselves hence the 2nd law is a little inapplicable here. But assuming their ancestors did their jobs dutifully, it would mean that the 2nd law was indeed fulfilled. So in this case, the 3 laws are still applicable. But clearly, even with the 3 laws in place, humanity still suffered the fate of climate change, an impact far worse than even that of the detonation of a nuclear bomb. Quite distinctly, the question is thrown back to us, as to whom is the perpetrator here, the robots or us?

In the Evitable Conflict, and icon of sci-fi, AI, is misbehaving. Asimov uses this scenario to explore points where the 3 laws intersect and contradict each other. Here, the AI causes minor disturbances in specific peoples' lives because they oppose The Machine's use as a tool to control the world's economy. It causes them to lose their jobs, or be relocated, with the intent of self-preservation, abiding by the third law, because its existence and absolute rule over the economics system protects humanity (the first law). This is interesting because we're presented with a textbook ethical dilemma: should the lives of many be valued over individuals' ? Where it differs is the AI's actions aren't physically harming the individuals, only disrupting their way of living. Asimov clearly displays this. So does this make it fine? If the Co-ordinator never decided to look into the discrepancies, no one would be the wiser. I think this story shows us how the three laws still give room for a Superintelligence to manipulate Humanity, and it's asking if we're ok with that. I see parallels between The Machine and our Deities; an omniscient presence that we believe acts with benevolence. This deepens the discussion. It seems the reason why we reject the idea of a Superintelligence's rule is because it is a created being, while some of us find solace, in obedience to a Creator. But if both are omniscient and benevolent, why reject one over the other? Is it simply a matter of pride as the text suggests?


I’ll be sharing my views on the short film “Three Robots”. Asimov’s Three Laws of Robotics seems to revolve around protecting humans and ensuring that a robot obeys their commands while protecting itself as well. In this film, the three laws doesn’t seem to be viable since it portrayed that all human life had been wiped out so the laws can’t really hold. That’s one clear observation for me.
However, I think it is fair to say that throughout the film, the robots were really positively intrigued about the ways of a human. I did not sense any negativity towards the human race such that these robots would want to harm one. Even in the food joint scene, 11-45-G (the pyramid-looking robot) prepared a “meal” for a human corpse which further provided some hints that they’re not here to harm humans. Furthermore, the robots didn’t retaliate (especially the XBOT which was equipped with a gun) when they were cornered by the genetically modified cats. If that’s the case, I’m assuming that if humans were to still exist in that World, the first law might actually hold true.
The icon here to me would be the cats which were portrayed as the genetically modified experiment gone wrong. Typically for me, this icon would usually be a human that underwent a modification and in turn uses his/her abilities for destruction. This was different as I would not have expected an innocent cat to be the reason for the extinction of the human race. Really interesting twist.

The Evitable Conflict
This story talks about a machine that is implemented to make economic choices for humanity. This makes sense because the machine is a really good calculator and has the ability to calculate and perform decisions rationally and produces best possible outcomes. The machine has the laws of robotics implemented into it to ensure that it could not and would not harm humans.
My comment on the viability of the three laws of robotics in this story is that, if we have made a machine which its purpose is to do calculations, is there a need for such rules to exist. Since its purpose is to aid humans, does it make the 3 laws of robotics redundant? Afterall the 3 laws of robotics are just rules that are put in place so that a robot’s purpose is to serve and benefit human kind. I believe that they story converged to a similar conclusion of needing something that is not just the 3 law, it needs human acceptance, it needs to have empathy, it needs to be more … … human.
To me, this story also showcases the effects of eastern ethics, karma. Things that you do will end up affecting you. In this case, we have pushed the idea of rationalism into the space of human society, and the result is that although we have gained economic stability, we have sacrificed elements that makes us human.

 'Three Robots' from Love, Death & Robots depicts three robots embarking on a sightseeing tour of a post-apocalyptic city long after the fall of humanity. The 'icon' of science fiction used in this short episode - the robot, is unusual in that the context it is brought into is different from how it functions in other movies/films. Most of the time, other than in Wall-E, there exist human-robot interactions in the plot of the film, which enable Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics to be applied as the laws are largely centred around the safety and wellbeing of humans. In this case, the three robots are taking a tour of a city where bare bones are the only remnants of the human race and hence there is an apparent lack of human-robot interaction to which Asimov's Three Laws can be applied, rendering them unviable in this situation.

However, the 'ancestors' of these intelligent machines were portrayed to be serving humans in many ways, from being computer entertainment systems to baby monitors, implying that the robots were following Asimov's Second Law of Robotics, which is to obey orders given by human beings, at least when humans were still alive. In this case, Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics can be considered to be viable.

On a side note, in light of how the genetically engineered cats were portrayed to be responsible for the fall of humanity, I was considering whether the robots could have helped to save human beings, in accordance to Asimov's First Law, where 'A robot may not injure a human being, or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm'. Were the robots capable enough at that point in time to realise that humans will bring about their own downfall in their invention of genetically engineered cats? Or were the robots still in their basic form of simple tools for human usage? In this aspect, Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics cannot be concluded to be viable or unviable as we need further historical insight from the plot.

All in all, the three robots are also different from usual depictions in that they are capable of conveying feelings (e.g. excitement) and it is interesting to note how they use profanities in their conversations exactly like how a human being would use them since robots/intelligent machines are supposedly fed with the ideal side of human beings.

In "Three Robots" there are two prominent races that exchibits similarities to the icon, robots as described by Gwyneth Jones. They are the robots and the genetically enhanced cats.
These two species are fundamentally different, one is entirely made by man and as mentioned by Jones, were shown to be created as workers but become so competent that they supplant their masters. XBOT 4000 ancestry marks down to gaming consoles and K-VRC to baby monitors. Because of their ancestry it can be inferred that, robots were made to protect and obey humans, thus, it is viable that they follow the Three Laws of Robotics at least until the death of all humanity. The third law is viable because we see XBOT 4000 being afraid of death, and petting the cat to prevent its "explosion".
The cats on the other hand, came to be as naturally as humans, but with technological and scientific advancements, humans decided to enhance cats with opposable thumbs which kicked off cats evolution to the top of the food chain. In this case, mankind's creation were not programmable, and laws could not be imposed onto them. Humanity eventually got wiped out by cats.
Both robots and cats were 'technically' created by humans to serve them, so we can infer both species to be kind of an icon of robots. From here we can see two typical views of this icon, one being somewhat in humanity's favour (if humanity were still alive) and the other as hostile to human-beings although both were created by man.

The short film “Three Robots” (from Love, Death +Robots) shows 3 robots exploring a post-apocalyptic city, after the fall of humanity. From the readings on icons of Science Fiction, we understand that robots are seen as workers who assist humans. The 3 Laws of Robotics are viewed as principles to be programmed into robots to ensure that they do not cause harm to humans. However, due to the fall of humanity shown in the film, it is unclear if the usual icon of robots as workers is shown here. There is however one scene in the film where the robots were at the diner and one of the robots served a plate of food to a human skeleton, which seems to suggest the idea of robots as workers. Having said that, as we look at the film as a whole showcasing the robots as tourists exploring the city, it shows that the robots do not follow the typical understanding of being workers. Hence, the 3 Laws of Robotics would not be applicable to the robots in the film, especially since we also find out that the reason behind the fall of humanity was not due to robots doing harm to humans, but because of the genetic engineering of cats.

The show ‘Three Robots’ in Love Death Robots we watched during this week’s cohort was set in a post apocalyptic city where humans are all extinct and only left with robots (3 shown in the show) and cats. The 3 robots portrayed humane characteristics that stereotypical robots do not portray. These robots do not fall under Isaac Asimov’s definition of a robot that are emotionless and are used to ease human tasks. Instead these robots have “a mind of their own” and even display emotions such as excitement, fear and happiness amongst many others.
In the readings, Kuipers described the robots as ones that need to be bounded by ethical guidelines if not they would be “out of hand” and might even cause harm to humans. However, the three robots in the show display more timid characteristics and even fearing a cat for the potential to explode in their arms if it was not pet. In Isaac Asimov’s “The Evitable Conflict”, the Machines were behind the running of society and had the power of “controlling” humans to their benefit. However, in the film, the “powerful” character in the show were the cats, which the humans themselves, genetically engineered them to have opposable thumbs that ultimately led to their demise. Ultimately the cats could be considered the “villan” icon in the show.

In 'Three Robots', we see the untypically explored scenario whereby, humans have long since been extincted and instead we follow our main characters - 3 robots, in their tour around another post apocalyptic city. The use of icon of robots in this scenario is quite odd. Robots are usually seen as workers, tools meant to serve humans. Even in the case of Androids and Gynoids, which perhaps is a better classification of these robots (given their level of intelligence), their icons are defined in relation to humans, typically as a futuristic underclass, living alongside humans.
- These 3 robots instead live independent from humans and rather, seem to embody human characteristics, in them appearing to us like tourists, studying/exploring prominent historical destinations to understand us as a species. Given that the bulk of Asimov's Three Laws are defined in relation to human beings, these laws do not really work to guide a robot's (moral?) actions in a scenario such as this one, where humans no longer exist. Perhaps, it just helps to highlight speciesism, the laws only serving to keep the robots subservient to us. It is also possibly suggested that even with these laws in place, robots would not be able to save us from our own stupidity, in the case of environmental disasters. It is also amusing to see how the writer possibly played with the idea of the technological singularly being instead the point where we decide to give cats opposable thumbs - a key evolutionary trait for us humans in making and using tools.

I feel that Isaac Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics are not viable in 'Three Robots' as the setting of the film was post-apocalyptic - where there are no humans around to be harmed by robots. The cause of humans' demise were essentially environmental disaster and the genetic modification of cats which were both their own undoing. The typical icon of robots in a post-apocalyptic film was portrayed differently from what I expected. One might expect a post-apocalyptic sci-fi video to be overrun with super intelligent robots who have taken over the planet, with humans serving the robots. However, the nature of the interaction between the three robots was entertaining, something one might observe from typical human behaviour. They possessed some traits that resembled human interactions, one example would be the ability to be sarcastic. Their fascination towards human behaviour and activities such as basketball and eating probably stem from their inability to empathise with humans which results in incredulous reactions when they were in the basketball court / cafeteria. In a way, the robots were portrayed to more human-like. It is possible that the cats were included to highlight that fact, as some kind of humour about cats believing humans to be their servant.

Three Robots follows a self-guided tour group of the titular three robots through post-apocalyptic USA. Throughout their journey, they discuss the lives their creators and former masters have had before all humans (at least in the USA) perished, going off only from information they extracted online and their obsolete ancestors.

The premise alone conflicts with the Laws of Robotics, whereby robots are to protect and obey humans before the robots themselves, because there were no longer any humans for the Three Robots to obey nor protect. Instead of perishing without human instruction, the Three Robots have the independence of thought to explore the human-less world, even criticising the way humans lived and interacted with others and the world. Had they only their logical reasoning, the Three Robots could not have been able to question their human creators, let alone exist long enough without human instruction.

Interestingly, we can then argue that the Robots’s human creators were the ones to program higher-level thoughts and even emotions into the Robots, likely to expand the convenience of using them to cater to their every whim. However, being humans, the robotics programmers likely only coded instructions realting to humans. That’s why rather than fixing the world without humans, the Robots wandered around and explored whatever was left of the Earth. Their human creators never considered a situation where all humans would perish, and with no instructions for said situation, the data-seeking robots sought out knowledge through exploration.


‘The Evitable Conflict’ is a short story written by Asimov. In the story, because of the development of the robot, the world is divided into four regions each controlled by a self-aware supercomputer known as the Machines. Byerly, the world coordinator, discovered that the Machine made some mistakes recently and asked for Susan’s help. In the last, Susan discovered that the Machines are intentionally making those mistakes to resist some anti-robot individuals and therefore, protect themselves and the future of humanity.
I think this story shows the infeasible of three laws of robotics. For the three laws without zeroth law, the story itself is about the problems of it. The issue is that the three laws only cover simple situations like only one man and one robot. When there are more humans involved, like the trolley problem where a decision must be made between actively hurting one person or passively hurting multiple person, the three laws are powerless. Asimov was probably aware of the problem. Therefore, the zeroth law was introduced in this story. The zeroth law says that a robot may not harm humanity, or, by inaction, allow humanity to come to harm. However, this only introduces more problems. Firstly, in Asimov’s story, the three laws are equations implemented by the robot’s positronic brain to guide the robot’s behaviours. But the zeroth law is not. There is no way for a robot to spontaneously develop something that violates their highest law. And this breaks down the setting of the series. Secondly, there is no way to well define the zeroth law. Who should define humanity? Should we let robots to define humanity for us? If not, whose opinion should we follow? Like in trolley problem, should a robot make a decision based on the number of people or the contribution of people? In the story, everyone including the Machine is trying to save humanity but in different ways. Those targeted individuals believe that a future without robot is better of humanity. The Machine and Susan believe that future with robots is better. There is no way to give a determined answer for this which makes zeroth law infeasible.
The untypical use of icons in this story is that no one or nothing is meant to be eval. So, there is no mad scientist or out of control computer. Everyone in this story is trying to follow their zeroth law to do good for humanity.

In my opinion, Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics are not viable in the film Three Robots as the Three Laws were constructed with humans/humanity as the core. The Laws were put in place to protect humans whenever robots interacted with humans. Without humans, there is no human-robot interactions and these laws essentially serve no purpose and hence are not viable. Also, it felt as though the robots lost touch with humanity as they did not understand basic human functions like eating or playing basketball, yet they were descendants of robots that once served humans.

Robots, a very common icon of sci-fi, is used in the film and I feel that usually robots are perceived to be the other, yet in this film I feel that somehow being situated in a post apocalyptic setting with no humans around, the robots took over the main role and casted the humans as the other, as the three robots tried to figure out what humans once did in their previous lives. It is a very interesting role reversal.

All great science fiction films contain reflections on the human condition. Science fiction allows us to use external perspectives to suspend preconceived stereotypes, evaluate human behavior from empty, from the perspective of robots, with the help of physics. Nouns, suspense common sense, do existential criticism thinking. When robots deconstruct the meaning of human life, absurdity and unreality make us laugh.

The narrative of contemporary sci-fi movies continues to magnify the pessimism of "the end of civilization" and the ideological tendency of pan-life theory based on the entanglement between machines and humans.

But the episode “Three Robots” is a unique science fiction movie. After the three robots talked about their views on humans for 10 minutes, I thought that "Reviewing human life from the perspective of artificial intelligence" is the highlight of this episode. When I was excited to pat my thighs and shouted out my experience - human beings are a meat pocket, not worth living on the earth - the plot has reversed. It turns out that cats are the culprit leading to the demise of humanity...

Of course, no matter what kind of object that human beings "infiltrate" with technology, they give them "new life" to some extent. Science and technology "escape" human control is a matter of time, whether it is destroyed by robots or destroyed by cats, in fact, not bad. As for Asimov's 3 Law or Robotics, I believe that all kinds of objects that powered by technology, including robots, should obey such basic rules.

 "The Evitable Conflict" depicts a society that is directed by the Machines, which are driven by the Three Laws of Robotics, and aim to maximize human happiness while also aware that human happiness is maximized by the continued direction of the Machines. The Machines then direct humanity to the course of action that ensures the survival of the Machines themselves.

To me, this counts as a cyborg-society where man and the Machines exist in not just a state of fusion, but rather interdependent symbiosis. The classic cyborg is a bio-mechanical fusion of machine parts, something like RoboCop, but that requires serious advances in biology and engineering. The cyborg-society depicted is an atypical use of the "cyborg" icon.

In fact, I would say that to Asimov we would all appear to be cyborgs. Instead of bio-mechanical body parts, we have achieved exactly the kind of fusion in the world of "The Evitable Conflict", just on a lesser scale. We carry around computers in our pockets that are vastly more powerful than anything Asimov would have seen in his lifetime. We have access to the collective knowledge of humanity, catalogued and instantly available by natural language search. And of course we (both as individuals and in the collective) rely on computers around the world to make decisions for us.

The Laws of Robotics (adapted to big-H Humanity and not individual humans) are not just viable, but fundamental to this symbiosis. Because of the law that robots may not directly harm humanity or through inaction, allow humanity to come to harm, the Machines are obliged to determine the best course of humanity which just so happens to be the interdependence of man and the Machines.

Asimov never uses the term "cyborg" to describe the symbiosis of man and his Machines. But in a way, he was on to something -- that humanity would someday be deeply reliant on machines to make decisions, while still retaining the fleshly accidents of biology.

One would expect the robots in '3 Robots' to portray the icon of, well, robots, but I feel that the characters in that particular episode of 'Love, Death & Robots' do not actually fulfill its own characteristics that Gwyneth Jones describes it as. It is therefore difficult for these robots to follow Asimov's 3 laws of robotics that generally characterizes robots.

Jones describes robots in science fiction as machines that are mainly either subservient to humanity -- being mere tools and servants to men, or have surpassed the need for humankind -- thanks to technological progress to the point of reaching superintelligence, allowing them to gain sentience. Basically, they both have the common factor of humanity being very much involved, where we are either their masters or were their masters.

Contrary to how robots would normally view humanity, what stood out for the 3 robots was that they seemed totally detached from us, finding in more meaning in touring in our world than serving in it. Robots who followed the 3 laws would probably be aware of how humanity functioned, since their world would revolve around humans. These robots however, seemed to have their functions detached from their 'ancestors', showing signs of their disregard of the 3 laws.

In ex machina, Ava was programmed to lie and seduce her way out of her cell. She used techniques of manipulation, and seeking sympathy to achieve her goals, even if she displayed affection for her rescuer, in the end, she locked him up without a second thought for him. This goes to show the dangers of robots becoming extremely capable in their field but are unable to feel human emotions and in the end sacrificing humans to achieve their goals.
This leads to the question of whether we should create first think later or think first then create later. In my opinion, robot being intelligent is inevitable, even if all laws prevent the creation of robots, one day it will still be developed illegally. Thus it is illogical to further delay their invention. Another point to take note is that robots would definitely supercede humans in the future. With these points in mind we should expand and build upon from there.
We have to explore the realm of robots with ethics as well. If we implement feelings into robots and them feel like a human, it means robots will be able to feel despair, loss, suffering which might lead them to perform in a non-ethical way such as murder/suicide. This is the case in Zima Blue where the artist downgraded his whole body to become a simple robot, with only enough intelligence to clean the pool, essentially erasing himself from existence.
